doc/articles/common-issues.md, before:

---
uid: Uno.UI.CommonIssues
---

# Troubleshooting

The Uno Platform features and support are constantly evolving, yet you may encounter some of the issues while building your application, for which answers and details are available below.

[!include[getting-help](includes/getting-help.md)]

## Hot Reload

More troubleshooting information is available [in this section](xref:Uno.Features.HotReload#troubleshooting).

## Development Environments

- [All Development Environments](xref:Uno.UI.CommonIssues.AllIDEs)
- [Visual Studio 2022 for Windows](xref:Uno.UI.CommonIssues.vs2022)
- [VS Code](xref:Uno.UI.CommonIssues.vscode)
- [Rider](xref:Uno.UI.CommonIssues.rider)

## Platforms

- [Common issues on WebAssembly](xref:Uno.UI.CommonIssues.Wasm)
- [Common issues on Skia (Gtk/WPF/Framebuffer)](xref:Uno.UI.CommonIssues.Skia)
- [Common issues on iOS/mac Catalyst](xref:Uno.UI.CommonIssues.IosCatalyst)

## Next Steps

Learn more about:

- You can head to [our tutorials](xref:Uno.GettingStarted.Tutorial1) on how to work on your Uno Platform app.
- [List of views implemented in Uno](implemented-views.md) for the set of available controls and their properties.

Commit message:

docs: Add links to general FAQ
(cherry picked from commit 392a2a7903446a112f20475f1057d94e40f23ed9)

doc/articles/common-issues.md, after:

---
uid: Uno.UI.CommonIssues
---

# Troubleshooting

The Uno Platform features and support are constantly evolving, yet you may encounter some of the issues while building your application, for which answers and details are available below.

[!include[getting-help](includes/getting-help.md)]

A better resource for high-level questions about Uno Platform is the [general FAQ](xref:Uno.Development.FAQ).

## Hot Reload

More troubleshooting information is available [in this section](xref:Uno.Features.HotReload#troubleshooting).

## Development Environments

- [All Development Environments](xref:Uno.UI.CommonIssues.AllIDEs)
- [Visual Studio 2022 for Windows](xref:Uno.UI.CommonIssues.vs2022)
- [VS Code](xref:Uno.UI.CommonIssues.vscode)
- [Rider](xref:Uno.UI.CommonIssues.rider)

## Platforms

- [Common issues on WebAssembly](xref:Uno.UI.CommonIssues.Wasm)
- [Common issues on Skia (Gtk/WPF/Framebuffer)](xref:Uno.UI.CommonIssues.Skia)
- [Common issues on iOS/mac Catalyst](xref:Uno.UI.CommonIssues.IosCatalyst)

## Next Steps

Learn more about:

- You can head to [our tutorials](xref:Uno.GettingStarted.Tutorial1) on how to work on your Uno Platform app.
- [List of views implemented in Uno](implemented-views.md) for the set of available controls and their properties.
