doc/articles/composition.md, before:

---
uid: Uno.Development.Composition
---

# Composition API

Composition Visuals make up the visual tree structure which all other features of the composition API use and build on.
The API allows developers to define and create one or many visual objects each representing a single node in a visual tree.

To get more info, you can refer to [Microsoft's documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/composition/composition-visual-tree).

Uno Platform currently supports a small number of the APIs in the [`Windows.UI.Composition` namespace](https://learn.microsoft.com/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition?view=winrt).

The rest of this article details Uno-specific considerations regarding Composition API.

**On Android, most composition features are functional only for Android 10 (API 29) and above.**

## Compositor Thread [Android]

On Android, the composition refers to the [`Draw`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/view/View#draw(android.graphics.Canvas)) and [`OnDraw`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/view/View#onDraw(android.graphics.Canvas)) methods.
To get more info about custom drawing on Android, you can refer to the [Android's documentation](https://developer.android.com/training/custom-views/custom-drawing).

By default, those methods are invoked on the UI Thread.

With Uno, you can request to run those methods on a dedicated thread by setting in your Android application's constructor:

```csharp
Uno.CompositionConfiguration.Configuration = Uno.CompositionConfiguration.Options.Enabled;
```

This thread will also be used for [independent animations](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/design/motion/storyboarded-animations#dependent-and-independent-animations).

**When overriding the `[On]Draw` methods, it is very important not to access any state that can be edited from the UI Thread, including any `DependencyProperty`.**
**Instead, you should capture the state of your control into a `RenderNode` during the `ArrangeOverride` and render it on the provided `Canvas`.**

_There are a few known issues associated with the used of the compositor thread, [make sure to read the section below](#known-issues)._

## Implemented APIs [GTK/WPF]

### Windows.UI.Composition
- [CompositionBackdropBrush](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionbackdropbrush)
- [CompositionBrush](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionbrush)
- [CompositionCapabilities](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositioncapabilities)
- [CompositionClip](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionclip)
- [CompositionColorBrush](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositioncolorbrush)
- [CompositionEffectBrush](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositioneffectbrush)
- [CompositionEffectFactory](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositioneffectfactory)
- [CompositionEffectSourceParameter](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositioneffectsourceparameter)
- [CompositionEllipseGeometry](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionellipsegeometry)
- [CompositionGeometricClip](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositiongeometricclip)
- [CompositionGeometry](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositiongeometry)
- [CompositionGradientBrush](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositiongradientbrush)
- [CompositionLinearGradientBrush](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionlineargradientbrush)
- [CompositionLineGeometry](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionlinegeometry)
- [CompositionMaskBrush](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionmaskbrush)
- [CompositionNineGridBrush](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionninegridbrush)
- [CompositionObject](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionobject)
- [CompositionPath](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionpath)
- [CompositionPathGeometry](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionpathgeometry)
- [CompositionPropertySet](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionpropertyset)
- [CompositionRadialGradientBrush](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionradialgradientbrush)
- [CompositionRectangleGeometry](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionrectanglegeometry)
- [CompositionRoundedRectangleGeometry](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionroundedrectanglegeometry)
- [CompositionShape](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionshape)
- [CompositionShapeCollection](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionshapecollection)
- [CompositionSpriteShape](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionspriteshape)
- [CompositionSurfaceBrush](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionsurfacebrush)
- [CompositionViewBox](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionviewbox)
- [CompositionVisualSurface](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionvisualsurface)
- [Compositor](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositor)
- [ContainerVisual](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.containervisual)
- [InsetClip](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.insetclip)
- [IVisualElement](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.ivisualelement)
- [IVisualElement2](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.ivisualelement2)
- [RectangleClip](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.rectangleclip)
- [RedirectVisual](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.redirectvisual)
- [ShapeVisual](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.shapevisual)
- [SpriteVisual](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.spritevisual)
- [Visual](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.visual)
- [VisualCollection](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.visualcollection)

### Windows.Graphics.Effects
- [IGraphicsEffectSource](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.graphics.effects.igraphicseffectsource)

### Windows.Graphics.Effects.Interop
- [IGraphicsEffectD2D1Interop](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/api/windows.graphics.effects.interop/nn-windows-graphics-effects-interop-igraphicseffectd2d1interop)

### Microsoft.Graphics.Canvas.Effects (Win2D/Composition Effects)
- [AlphaMaskEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_AlphaMaskEffect.htm)
- [ArithmeticCompositeEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_ArithmeticCompositeEffect.htm)
- [BlendEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_BlendEffect.htm)
- [BorderEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_BorderEffect.htm)
- [ColorMatrixEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_ColorMatrixEffect.htm)
- [ColorSourceEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_ColorSourceEffect.htm)
- [CompositeEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_CompositeEffect.htm)
- [ContrastEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_ContrastEffect.htm)
- [CrossFadeEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_CrossFadeEffect.htm)
- [DistantDiffuseEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_DistantDiffuseEffect.htm)
- [DistantSpecularEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_DistantSpecularEffect.htm)
- [ExposureEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_ExposureEffect.htm)
- [GammaTransferEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_GammaTransferEffect.htm)
- [GaussianBlurEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_GaussianBlurEffect.htm)
- [GrayscaleEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_GrayscaleEffect.htm)
- [HueRotationEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_HueRotationEffect.htm)
- [InvertEffectEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_InvertEffect.htm)
- [LinearTransferEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_LinearTransferEffect.htm)
- [LuminanceToAlphaEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_LuminanceToAlphaEffect.htm)
- [Matrix5x4](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_Matrix5x4.htm)
- [OpacityEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_OpacityEffect.htm)
- [PointDiffuseEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_PointDiffuseEffect.htm)
- [PointSpecularEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_PointSpecularEffect.htm)
- [SaturationEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_SaturationEffect.htm)
- [SepiaEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_SepiaEffect.htm)
- [SpotDiffuseEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_SpotDiffuseEffect.htm)
- [SpotSpecularEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_SpotSpecularEffect.htm)
- [TemperatureAndTintEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_TemperatureAndTintEffect.htm)
- [TintEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_TintEffect.htm)
- [Transform2DEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_Transform2DEffect.htm)

## Known issues

* When using the compositor thread, the native ripple effect of Android (used in native buttons) does not work.

Commit message:

refactor(composition): disable anti-aliasing by default for brushes + an option to re-enable it

doc/articles/composition.md, after:

---
uid: Uno.Development.Composition
---

# Composition API

Composition Visuals make up the visual tree structure which all other features of the composition API use and build on.
The API allows developers to define and create one or many visual objects each representing a single node in a visual tree.

To get more info, you can refer to [Microsoft's documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/composition/composition-visual-tree).

Uno Platform currently supports a small number of the APIs in the [`Windows.UI.Composition` namespace](https://learn.microsoft.com/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition?view=winrt).

The rest of this article details Uno-specific considerations regarding Composition API.

**On Android, most composition features are functional only for Android 10 (API 29) and above.**

## Compositor Thread [Android]

On Android, the composition refers to the [`Draw`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/view/View#draw(android.graphics.Canvas)) and [`OnDraw`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/view/View#onDraw(android.graphics.Canvas)) methods.
To get more info about custom drawing on Android, you can refer to the [Android's documentation](https://developer.android.com/training/custom-views/custom-drawing).

By default, those methods are invoked on the UI Thread.

With Uno, you can request to run those methods on a dedicated thread by setting in your Android application's constructor:

```csharp
Uno.CompositionConfiguration.Configuration = Uno.CompositionConfiguration.Options.Enabled;
```

This thread will also be used for [independent animations](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/design/motion/storyboarded-animations#dependent-and-independent-animations).

**When overriding the `[On]Draw` methods, it is very important not to access any state that can be edited from the UI Thread, including any `DependencyProperty`.**
**Instead, you should capture the state of your control into a `RenderNode` during the `ArrangeOverride` and render it on the provided `Canvas`.**

_There are a few known issues associated with the used of the compositor thread, [make sure to read the section below](#known-issues)._

## Brush Anti-aliasing [GTK/WPF]

On Skia targets (GTK and WPF), anti-aliasing is disabled by default for brushes, you can request it to be anti-aliased by setting this in your application's constructor:

```csharp
Uno.CompositionConfiguration.Configuration |= Uno.CompositionConfiguration.Options.UseBrushAntialiasing;
```

Or alternatively this, if you want to enable all available Composition capabilities:

```csharp
Uno.CompositionConfiguration.Configuration = Uno.CompositionConfiguration.Options.Enabled;
```

## Implemented APIs [GTK/WPF]

### Windows.UI.Composition
- [CompositionBackdropBrush](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionbackdropbrush)
- [CompositionBrush](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionbrush)
- [CompositionCapabilities](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositioncapabilities)
- [CompositionClip](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionclip)
- [CompositionColorBrush](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositioncolorbrush)
- [CompositionEffectBrush](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositioneffectbrush)
- [CompositionEffectFactory](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositioneffectfactory)
- [CompositionEffectSourceParameter](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositioneffectsourceparameter)
- [CompositionEllipseGeometry](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionellipsegeometry)
- [CompositionGeometricClip](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositiongeometricclip)
- [CompositionGeometry](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositiongeometry)
- [CompositionGradientBrush](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositiongradientbrush)
- [CompositionLinearGradientBrush](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionlineargradientbrush)
- [CompositionLineGeometry](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionlinegeometry)
- [CompositionMaskBrush](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionmaskbrush)
- [CompositionNineGridBrush](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionninegridbrush)
- [CompositionObject](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionobject)
- [CompositionPath](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionpath)
- [CompositionPathGeometry](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionpathgeometry)
- [CompositionPropertySet](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionpropertyset)
- [CompositionRadialGradientBrush](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionradialgradientbrush)
- [CompositionRectangleGeometry](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionrectanglegeometry)
- [CompositionRoundedRectangleGeometry](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionroundedrectanglegeometry)
- [CompositionShape](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionshape)
- [CompositionShapeCollection](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionshapecollection)
- [CompositionSpriteShape](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionspriteshape)
- [CompositionSurfaceBrush](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionsurfacebrush)
- [CompositionViewBox](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionviewbox)
- [CompositionVisualSurface](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositionvisualsurface)
- [Compositor](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.compositor)
- [ContainerVisual](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.containervisual)
- [InsetClip](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.insetclip)
- [IVisualElement](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.ivisualelement)
- [IVisualElement2](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.ivisualelement2)
- [RectangleClip](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.rectangleclip)
- [RedirectVisual](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.redirectvisual)
- [ShapeVisual](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.shapevisual)
- [SpriteVisual](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.spritevisual)
- [Visual](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.visual)
- [VisualCollection](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.composition.visualcollection)

### Windows.Graphics.Effects
- [IGraphicsEffectSource](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.graphics.effects.igraphicseffectsource)

### Windows.Graphics.Effects.Interop
- [IGraphicsEffectD2D1Interop](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/api/windows.graphics.effects.interop/nn-windows-graphics-effects-interop-igraphicseffectd2d1interop)

### Microsoft.Graphics.Canvas.Effects (Win2D/Composition Effects)
- [AlphaMaskEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_AlphaMaskEffect.htm)
- [ArithmeticCompositeEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_ArithmeticCompositeEffect.htm)
- [BlendEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_BlendEffect.htm)
- [BorderEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_BorderEffect.htm)
- [ColorMatrixEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_ColorMatrixEffect.htm)
- [ColorSourceEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_ColorSourceEffect.htm)
- [CompositeEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_CompositeEffect.htm)
- [ContrastEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_ContrastEffect.htm)
- [CrossFadeEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_CrossFadeEffect.htm)
- [DistantDiffuseEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_DistantDiffuseEffect.htm)
- [DistantSpecularEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_DistantSpecularEffect.htm)
- [ExposureEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_ExposureEffect.htm)
- [GammaTransferEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_GammaTransferEffect.htm)
- [GaussianBlurEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_GaussianBlurEffect.htm)
- [GrayscaleEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_GrayscaleEffect.htm)
- [HueRotationEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_HueRotationEffect.htm)
- [InvertEffectEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_InvertEffect.htm)
- [LinearTransferEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_LinearTransferEffect.htm)
- [LuminanceToAlphaEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_LuminanceToAlphaEffect.htm)
- [Matrix5x4](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_Matrix5x4.htm)
- [OpacityEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_OpacityEffect.htm)
- [PointDiffuseEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_PointDiffuseEffect.htm)
- [PointSpecularEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_PointSpecularEffect.htm)
- [SaturationEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_SaturationEffect.htm)
- [SepiaEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_SepiaEffect.htm)
- [SpotDiffuseEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_SpotDiffuseEffect.htm)
- [SpotSpecularEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_SpotSpecularEffect.htm)
- [TemperatureAndTintEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_TemperatureAndTintEffect.htm)
- [TintEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_TintEffect.htm)
- [Transform2DEffect](https://microsoft.github.io/Win2D/WinUI2/html/T_Microsoft_Graphics_Canvas_Effects_Transform2DEffect.htm)

## Known issues

* When using the compositor thread, the native ripple effect of Android (used in native buttons) does not work.
