doc/articles/create-an-app-vscode.md, before:

---
uid: Uno.GettingStarted.CreateAnApp.VSCode
---
# Creating an app with VS Code

> [!NOTE]
> Make sure to setup your environment by [following our instructions](xref:Uno.GetStarted.vscode).

## Create the App

In a terminal, type the following to create a new project using [`dotnet new`](xref:Uno.GetStarted.dotnet-new) templates:

```dotnetcli
dotnet new unoapp -o MyApp --preset=blank -platforms android ios maccatalyst wasm gtk --vscode
```

> [!TIP]
> `MyApp` is the name you want to give to your project.

This will create a blank template app that only contains the WebAssembly, Skia+GTK and Mobile platforms support.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Apple targets cannot be built under Linux. If you are using Linux, you'll need to remove `ios` and `maccatalyst` from the `platforms` list. The previous command would become `dotnet new unoapp -o MyApp -preset=blank -platforms wasm gtk android --vscode`.

Next, open the project using Visual Studio Code:

* In the terminal type the following:

    ```bash
    code ./MyApp
    ```

* Visual Studio Code might ask to restore the NuGet packages. Allow it to restore them if asked.
* Once the project has been loaded, in the status bar at the bottom left of VS Code, `MyApp.sln` is selected by default. Select `MyApp.Wasm.csproj`, `MyApp.Skia.Gtk.csproj` or `MyApp.Mobile.csproj` instead.

## Debug the App

Uno Platform provides integrated support for debugging your app on Windows, mac and Linux.

### [**WebAssembly**](#tab/Wasm)

1. In the debugger section of the [activity bar](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/userinterface) select `Debug (Chrome, WebAssembly)`
1. In the status bar, ensure the `MyApp.Wasm.csproj` project is selected - by default `MyApp.sln` is selected.
1. Press `F5` to start the debugging session

### [**Skia GTK**](#tab/skiagtk)

1. In the debugger section of the [activity bar](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/userinterface) select `Skia.GTK (Debug)`
1. In the status bar, ensure the `MyApp.Skia.Gtk.csproj` project is selected - by default `MyApp.sln` is selected.
1. Press `F5` to start the debugging session

Note that C# Hot Reload is not available when running with the debugger. In order to use C# Hot Reload, run the app using the following:

* On Windows, type the following:

    ```bash
    $env:DOTNET_MODIFIABLE_ASSEMBLIES="debug"
    dotnet run
    ```

* On Linux or macOS:

    ```bash
    export DOTNET_MODIFIABLE_ASSEMBLIES=debug
    dotnet run
    ```

### [**Android**](#tab/androiddebug)

* In the status bar, select the `MyApp.Mobile` project - by default `MyApp.sln` is selected.

  ![mobile project name](Assets/quick-start/vs-code-debug-project.png)
* To the right of `MyApp.Mobile`, click on the target framework to select `net8.0-android | Debug`

  ![android target framework](Assets/quick-start/vs-code-debug-tf-android.png)
* Then, to the right of the target framework, select the device to debug with. You will need to connect an android device, or create an Android simulator.

  ![android device name](Assets/quick-start/vs-code-debug-device-android.png)
* Finally, in the debugger side menu, select the `Uno Platform Mobile` profile
* Either press `F5` or press the green arrow to start the debugging session.

### [**iOS**](#tab/iosdebug)

> [!NOTE]
> Debugging for iOS is only possible when running locally (or remotely through [Remote SSH](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-ssh)) on a macOS machine.

* In the status bar, select the `MyApp.Mobile` project - by default `MyApp.sln` is selected.

  ![mobile project name](Assets/quick-start/vs-code-debug-project.png)
* To the right of `MyApp.Mobile`, click on the target framework to select `net8.0-ios | Debug`

  ![ios target framework](Assets/quick-start/vs-code-debug-tf-ios.png)
* Then, to the right of the target framework, select the device to debug with. You will need to connect an iOS device, or use an existing iOS simulator.

  ![ios device](Assets/quick-start/vs-code-debug-device-ios.png)
* Finally, in the debugger side menu, select the `Uno Platform Mobile` profile
* Either press `F5` or press the green arrow

> [!TIP]
> When deploying to an iOS device, you may encounter the following error: `errSecInternalComponent`. In such case, you'll need to unlock your keychain from a terminal inside VS Code by running the following command: `security unlock-keychain`

### [**Mac Catalyst**](#tab/catalystdebug)

> [!NOTE]
> Debugging for Mac Catalyst is only possible when running locally (or remotely through [Remote SSH](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-ssh)) on a macOS machine.

* In the status bar, select the `MyApp.Mobile` project - by default `MyApp.sln` is selected.

  ![mobile project name](Assets/quick-start/vs-code-debug-project.png)
* To the right of `MyApp.Mobile`, click on the target framework to select `net8.0-maccatalyst | Debug`

  ![catalyst target framework](Assets/quick-start/vs-code-debug-tf-catalyst.png)
* Finally, in the debugger side menu, select the `Uno t Mobile` profile
* Either press `F5` or press the green arrow to start the debugging session.

***

You're all set!

You can also find [additional VS Code topics](xref:Uno.vscode.additional), such as using snippets, updating existing apps to use VS Code

## Next Steps

Now that you're Created and Debug the App.

Learn more about:

* [Uno Platform features and architecture](xref:Uno.GetStarted.Explore)
* [Hot Reload feature](xref:Uno.Features.HotReload)
* [Uno Platform App solution structure](xref:Uno.Development.AppStructure)
* [Troubleshooting](xref:Uno.UI.CommonIssues)
* [How-tos and Tutorials](xref:Uno.GettingStarted.Tutorial1) See real-world examples with working code.
* <a href="implemented-views.md">Use the API Reference to Browse the set of available controls and their properties.</a>

Commit message:

docs: Adjust docs for the wizard
(cherry picked from commit 1af990513ff17b533ba116c27766223efa820075)

doc/articles/create-an-app-vscode.md, after:

---
uid: Uno.GettingStarted.CreateAnApp.VSCode
---
# Creating an app with VS Code

> [!NOTE]
> Make sure to setup your environment by [following our instructions](xref:Uno.GetStarted.vscode).

## Create the App


Creating an Uno Platform project is done [using dotnet new](xref:Uno.GetStarted.dotnet-new) and Uno Platform Online Wizard by following these steps:

1. Open a browser and navigate to the online [App Wizard](https://aka.platform.uno/app-wizard)
1. Configure your new project by providing a project name, then click **Start**

    ![A screen showing how to choose a solution name](Assets/quick-start/live-wizard-01-choose-name.png)

1. Choose a template to build your application

    ![A screen showing how to choose template for the new app](Assets/quick-start/live-wizard-02-select-preset.png)

    > [!TIP]
    > For a detailed overview of the Uno Platform project template wizard and all its options, see [this guide](xref:Uno.GettingStarted.UsingWizard).

1. Click the **Create** button on the top right corner, then click the **Copy** button

    ![A screen showing the dotnet new command to create the new app](Assets/quick-start/live-wizard-03-create-app.png)

1. In your terminal, navigate to the folder that will contains your new app.
1. Create a new project by pasting and executing the command that was previously generated in the App Wizard.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Apple targets cannot be built under Linux. If you are using Linux, you'll need to remove `ios` and `maccatalyst` from the `platforms` list.

Next, open the project using Visual Studio Code:

* In the terminal type the following:

    ```bash
    code ./MyApp
    ```

* Visual Studio Code might ask to restore the NuGet packages. Allow it to restore them if asked.
* Once the project has been loaded, in the status bar at the bottom left of VS Code, `MyApp.sln` is selected by default. Select `MyApp.Wasm.csproj`, `MyApp.Skia.Gtk.csproj` or `MyApp.Mobile.csproj` instead.

## Debug the App

Uno Platform provides integrated support for debugging your app on Windows, mac and Linux.

### [**WebAssembly**](#tab/Wasm)

1. In the debugger section of the [activity bar](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/userinterface) select `Debug (Chrome, WebAssembly)`
1. In the status bar, ensure the `MyApp.Wasm.csproj` project is selected - by default `MyApp.sln` is selected.
1. Press `F5` to start the debugging session

### [**Skia GTK**](#tab/skiagtk)

1. In the debugger section of the [activity bar](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/userinterface) select `Skia.GTK (Debug)`
1. In the status bar, ensure the `MyApp.Skia.Gtk.csproj` project is selected - by default `MyApp.sln` is selected.
1. Press `F5` to start the debugging session

Note that C# Hot Reload is not available when running with the debugger. In order to use C# Hot Reload, run the app using the following:

* On Windows, type the following:

    ```bash
    $env:DOTNET_MODIFIABLE_ASSEMBLIES="debug"
    dotnet run
    ```

* On Linux or macOS:

    ```bash
    export DOTNET_MODIFIABLE_ASSEMBLIES=debug
    dotnet run
    ```

### [**Android**](#tab/androiddebug)

* In the status bar, select the `MyApp.Mobile` project - by default `MyApp.sln` is selected.

  ![mobile project name](Assets/quick-start/vs-code-debug-project.png)
* To the right of `MyApp.Mobile`, click on the target framework to select `net8.0-android | Debug`

  ![android target framework](Assets/quick-start/vs-code-debug-tf-android.png)
* Then, to the right of the target framework, select the device to debug with. You will need to connect an android device, or create an Android simulator.

  ![android device name](Assets/quick-start/vs-code-debug-device-android.png)
* Finally, in the debugger side menu, select the `Uno Platform Mobile` profile
* Either press `F5` or press the green arrow to start the debugging session.

### [**iOS**](#tab/iosdebug)

> [!NOTE]
> Debugging for iOS is only possible when running locally (or remotely through [Remote SSH](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-ssh)) on a macOS machine.

* In the status bar, select the `MyApp.Mobile` project - by default `MyApp.sln` is selected.

  ![mobile project name](Assets/quick-start/vs-code-debug-project.png)
* To the right of `MyApp.Mobile`, click on the target framework to select `net8.0-ios | Debug`

  ![ios target framework](Assets/quick-start/vs-code-debug-tf-ios.png)
* Then, to the right of the target framework, select the device to debug with. You will need to connect an iOS device, or use an existing iOS simulator.

  ![ios device](Assets/quick-start/vs-code-debug-device-ios.png)
* Finally, in the debugger side menu, select the `Uno Platform Mobile` profile
* Either press `F5` or press the green arrow

> [!TIP]
> When deploying to an iOS device, you may encounter the following error: `errSecInternalComponent`. In such case, you'll need to unlock your keychain from a terminal inside VS Code by running the following command: `security unlock-keychain`

### [**Mac Catalyst**](#tab/catalystdebug)

> [!NOTE]
> Debugging for Mac Catalyst is only possible when running locally (or remotely through [Remote SSH](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-ssh)) on a macOS machine.

* In the status bar, select the `MyApp.Mobile` project - by default `MyApp.sln` is selected.

  ![mobile project name](Assets/quick-start/vs-code-debug-project.png)
* To the right of `MyApp.Mobile`, click on the target framework to select `net8.0-maccatalyst | Debug`

  ![catalyst target framework](Assets/quick-start/vs-code-debug-tf-catalyst.png)
* Finally, in the debugger side menu, select the `Uno t Mobile` profile
* Either press `F5` or press the green arrow to start the debugging session.

***

You're all set!

You can also find [additional VS Code topics](xref:Uno.vscode.additional), such as using snippets, updating existing apps to use VS Code

## Next Steps

Now that you're Created and Debug the App.

Learn more about:

* [Uno Platform features and architecture](xref:Uno.GetStarted.Explore)
* [Hot Reload feature](xref:Uno.Features.HotReload)
* [Uno Platform App solution structure](xref:Uno.Development.AppStructure)
* [Troubleshooting](xref:Uno.UI.CommonIssues)
* [How-tos and Tutorials](xref:Uno.GettingStarted.Tutorial1) See real-world examples with working code.
* <a href="implemented-views.md">Use the API Reference to Browse the set of available controls and their properties.</a>
