doc/articles/samples-tutorials-overview.md, before:

---
uid: Uno.SamplesTutorials.Overview
---

# Samples & Tutorials

Welcome to the Uno Platform Samples & Tutorials section!

Here, you'll find a collection of resources designed to help you learn and explore the capabilities of Uno Platform. Whether you're a beginner looking to get started with your first app, or an experienced developer seeking to expand your knowledge, we have something for everyone.

## Getting Started

[**Counter App Tutorial**](xref:Uno.Workshop.Counter): Learn the basics of Uno Platform by creating a simple counter app. There are four variants of the Counter tutorial, combining markup language ([XAML](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/xaml-tools/xaml-overview) or [C# Markup](xref:Uno.Extensions.Markup.Overview)) and presentation framework ([MVVM](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/apps/develop/data-binding/data-binding-and-mvvm) or [MVUX](xref:Uno.Extensions.Mvux.Overview)). Also, you can build the Counter tutorial using our visual designer, [Hot Design](xref:Uno.HotDesign.GetStarted.CounterTutorial).

## Workshops

Dive into these hands-on workshops that guide you through building applications with the Uno Platform.
These workshops will help you learn more about the tools, libraries, and patterns available in the Uno Platform, which are there to help you rapidly build high-quality applications. Finally, these workshops have been set up to provide you with optional content, allowing you to tailor the experience to your needs.

- [**SimpleCalc Workshop**](xref:Workshop.SimpleCalc.Overview): A step-by-step tutorial to build a fully functional calculator. There are four paths possible for this workshop, combining markup language ([XAML](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/xaml-tools/xaml-overview) or [C# Markup](xref:Uno.Extensions.Markup.Overview)) and presentation framework ([MVVM](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/apps/develop/data-binding/data-binding-and-mvvm) or [MVUX](xref:Uno.Extensions.Mvux.Overview)).
- [**TubePlayer Workshop**](xref:Workshop.TubePlayer.Overview): A step-by-step tutorial to build an app that allows the user to search for, and stream, YouTube videos. By the end of this workshop, you'll have built a multi-platform application using Uno Platform features like [C# Markup](xref:Uno.Extensions.Markup.Overview) and [MVUX](xref:Uno.Extensions.Mvux.Overview). You'll have the option to import a UI from [Figma](https://aka.platform.uno/uno-figma) or to continue following the steps to build the UI for the application.

## In-Depth Tutorials

Expand your skills with these in-depth tutorials.

[**Tutorials Overview**](xref:Uno.Tutorials.Intro): A collection of tutorials to delve deeper into specific features and concepts that will show you how to use Uno Platform and solve specific problems.

## Sample Projects

Explore a range of sample projects showcasing the versatility of Uno Platform.

[**Chefs**](xref:Uno.Chefs.Overview): A recipe app that combines recipe browsing with interactive features, allowing users to explore step-by-step instructions, video tutorials, nutritional information, user reviews, and even create their own personalized cookbooks, all while showcasing powerful features of the Uno Platform in a practical, real-world scenario.

[**Samples Repository**](xref:Uno.Samples): A curated list of sample projects that demonstrate various functionalities and use cases ranging from small single-feature samples to larger showcase applications.

## Additional Resources

Further your knowledge and discover more about Uno Platform.

[**Next Steps in Learning**](xref:Uno.GetStarted.NextSteps): Resources for advancing your understanding of Uno Platform, including documentation, community links, and more.

Commit message:

docs: hd agent doc updates

doc/articles/samples-tutorials-overview.md, after:

---
uid: Uno.SamplesTutorials.Overview
---

# Samples & Tutorials

Welcome to the Uno Platform Samples & Tutorials section!

Here, you'll find a collection of resources designed to help you learn and explore the capabilities of Uno Platform. Whether you're a beginner looking to get started with your first app, or an experienced developer seeking to expand your knowledge, we have something for everyone.

## Getting Started

[**Counter App Tutorial**](xref:Uno.Workshop.Counter): Learn the basics of Uno Platform by creating a simple counter app. There are four variants of the Counter tutorial, combining markup language ([XAML](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/xaml-tools/xaml-overview) or [C# Markup](xref:Uno.Extensions.Markup.Overview)) and presentation framework ([MVVM](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/apps/develop/data-binding/data-binding-and-mvvm) or [MVUX](xref:Uno.Extensions.Mvux.Overview)). Also, you can build the Counter tutorial using our visual designer, [Hot Design](xref:Uno.HotDesign.GetStarted.CounterTutorial), or leverage [Hot Design® Agent](xref:Uno.HotDesign.Agent) for AI-assisted UI creation.

## Workshops

Dive into these hands-on workshops that guide you through building applications with the Uno Platform.
These workshops will help you learn more about the tools, libraries, and patterns available in the Uno Platform, which are there to help you rapidly build high-quality applications. Finally, these workshops have been set up to provide you with optional content, allowing you to tailor the experience to your needs.

- [**SimpleCalc Workshop**](xref:Workshop.SimpleCalc.Overview): A step-by-step tutorial to build a fully functional calculator. There are four paths possible for this workshop, combining markup language ([XAML](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/xaml-tools/xaml-overview) or [C# Markup](xref:Uno.Extensions.Markup.Overview)) and presentation framework ([MVVM](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/apps/develop/data-binding/data-binding-and-mvvm) or [MVUX](xref:Uno.Extensions.Mvux.Overview)).
- [**TubePlayer Workshop**](xref:Workshop.TubePlayer.Overview): A step-by-step tutorial to build an app that allows the user to search for, and stream, YouTube videos. By the end of this workshop, you'll have built a multi-platform application using Uno Platform features like [C# Markup](xref:Uno.Extensions.Markup.Overview) and [MVUX](xref:Uno.Extensions.Mvux.Overview). You'll have the option to import a UI from [Figma](https://aka.platform.uno/uno-figma) or to continue following the steps to build the UI for the application.

## In-Depth Tutorials

Expand your skills with these in-depth tutorials.

[**Tutorials Overview**](xref:Uno.Tutorials.Intro): A collection of tutorials to delve deeper into specific features and concepts that will show you how to use Uno Platform and solve specific problems.

## Sample Projects

Explore a range of sample projects showcasing the versatility of Uno Platform.

[**Chefs**](xref:Uno.Chefs.Overview): A recipe app that combines recipe browsing with interactive features, allowing users to explore step-by-step instructions, video tutorials, nutritional information, user reviews, and even create their own personalized cookbooks, all while showcasing powerful features of the Uno Platform in a practical, real-world scenario.

[**Samples Repository**](xref:Uno.Samples): A curated list of sample projects that demonstrate various functionalities and use cases ranging from small single-feature samples to larger showcase applications.

## Additional Resources

Further your knowledge and discover more about Uno Platform.

[**Next Steps in Learning**](xref:Uno.GetStarted.NextSteps): Resources for advancing your understanding of Uno Platform, including documentation, community links, and more.
