doc/articles/upgrading-nuget-packages.md, before:

---
uid: Uno.Development.UpgradeUnoNuget
---
# How to upgrade Uno Platform NuGet Packages

Upgrading packages in your applications is done differently, depending on how your solution has created.

- If your Uno Platform `.csproj` files start with `<Project Sdk="Uno.Sdk"`, your are using the [Uno.Sdk](https://www.nuget.org/packages/uno.sdk) structure introduced in Uno Platform 5.1.
- If not, you are using the original project structure provided before Uno Platform 5.1.

Choose one of the sections below depending on your situation.

## Projects without the Uno.Sdk

To upgrade nuget packages without the Uno.Sdk, you can use the [Nuget Package Manager](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/consume-packages/install-use-packages-visual-studio) coming from Visual Studio. Choose the latest stable versions of Uno Platform's NuGet packages.

## Projects using the Uno.Sdk

Starting from Uno Platform 5.1 and using the new [Uno.Sdk](https://www.nuget.org/packages/uno.sdk), upgrading NuGet packages starting by `Uno.WinUI.` requires updating the `global.json` file at the root of your solution.

It typically looks similar to this:

```json
{
  "msbuild-sdks": {
    "Uno.Sdk": "5.1.0",
    "Microsoft.Build.NoTargets": "3.7.56"
  }
}
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> At this time the NuGet Manager in Visual Studio 2022 does not parse or manage Sdks provided by NuGet. If you would like to see this feature added, please be sure to provide your [feedback or upvote this issue](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/13127).

To update the version, pick the latest stable build from the [Uno.WinUI](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Uno.WinUI) package with either:

- [Uno.WinUI in Nuget Package Explorer](https://nuget.info)
- [Uno.WinUI in nuget.org](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Uno.WinUI)
- The latest Uno.WinUI package in the Visual Studio 2022 NuGet Package Manager.

Once the version has been chosen, change the `global.json` line with `"Uno.Sdk"` to use the newer version of Uno Platform.

Commit message:

docs: Update nuget upgrade steps

doc/articles/upgrading-nuget-packages.md, after:

---
uid: Uno.Development.UpgradeUnoNuget
---
# How to upgrade Uno Platform NuGet Packages

Upgrading packages in your applications is done differently, depending on how your solution has created.

- If your Uno Platform `.csproj` files start with `<Project Sdk="Uno.Sdk"`, your are using the [Uno.Sdk](https://www.nuget.org/packages/uno.sdk) structure introduced in Uno Platform 5.1.
- If not, you are using the original project structure provided before Uno Platform 5.1.

Choose one of the sections below depending on your situation.

## Projects without the Uno.Sdk

To upgrade nuget packages without the Uno.Sdk, you can use the [Nuget Package Manager](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/consume-packages/install-use-packages-visual-studio) coming from Visual Studio. Choose the latest stable versions of Uno Platform's NuGet packages.

## Projects using the Uno.Sdk

Starting from Uno Platform 5.1 and using the new [Uno.Sdk](https://www.nuget.org/packages/uno.sdk), upgrading NuGet packages starting by `Uno.WinUI.` requires updating the `global.json` file at the root of your solution.

It typically looks similar to this:

```json
{
  "msbuild-sdks": {
    "Uno.Sdk": "5.1.0",
    "Microsoft.Build.NoTargets": "3.7.56"
  }
}
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> In Visual Studio 2022 once the Uno Version is updated, you'll need to close/reopen the solution or restart Visual Studio for the change to take effect.
> 
> At this time the NuGet package Manager does not parse or manage Sdks provided by NuGet. If you would like to see this feature added, please be sure to provide your [feedback or upvote this issue](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/13127).

To find the version to updatet to, pick the latest stable build from the [Uno.WinUI](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Uno.WinUI) package with either:

- When using Visual Studio 2022, use the NuGet Package Manager
- Use [`dotnet outdated`](https://github.com/dotnet-outdated/dotnet-outdated):
  - Install the tool using:
    ```xaml
    dotnet tool install --global dotnet-outdated-tool
    ```
  - Then, at the root of the solution, run the tool with:
    ```xaml
    dotnet outdated
    ```
  - When available, the tool will provide the versions which can be updated.
- [Uno.WinUI in Nuget Package Explorer](https://nuget.info/packages/Uno.WinUI)
- [Uno.WinUI in nuget.org](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Uno.WinUI)

Once the version has been chosen, change the `global.json` line with `"Uno.Sdk"` to use the newer version of Uno Platform. If you're running Visual Studio 2022, make sure to close/reopen the solution or restart the IDE.
