doc/articles/winui-doc-links-design.md, before:

---
uid: Uno.Development.WinUIDesignDoc
---

# WinUI documentation - Design

Uno Platform's API is derived from the WinUI application framework. Microsoft provides [extensive documentation for WinUI](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/). Rather than duplicate all of it, here we list selected entries that are especially applicable to Uno Platform developers.

These resources can serve as a starting point when designing your Uno Platform application.

Some of the points of guidance may be specific to Windows 10's [Fluent design language](https://www.microsoft.com/design/fluent/). When designing your cross-platform application, feel free to choose the principles that best apply to your users and the app experience you're aiming for.

## Basic design principles

* [Navigation principles](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/design/basics/navigation-basics)
* [Interactive elements](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/design/basics/commanding-basics)
* [Content presentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/design/basics/content-basics)
* [Page layout](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/design/layout/page-layout)

## Responsive design

* [Screen sizes and breakpoints](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/design/layout/screen-sizes-and-breakpoints-for-responsive-design)
* [Responsive design](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/design/layout/responsive-design)

## Individual controls

* [Controls list](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/design/controls-and-patterns/) _(note: not all controls may be implemented on non-Windows platforms - check the [individual control entries](implemented-views.md) in the Uno Platform API reference for details)_

## Patterns

* [Forms](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/design/controls-and-patterns/forms)
* [Master/details pattern](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/design/controls-and-patterns/master-details)
* [Integrating search](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/design/controls-and-patterns/search)

## Writing

* [Writing style](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/design/style/writing-style)

Commit message:

docs: hd agent doc updates

doc/articles/winui-doc-links-design.md, after:

---
uid: Uno.Development.WinUIDesignDoc
---

# WinUI documentation - Design

Uno Platform's API is derived from the WinUI application framework. Microsoft provides [extensive documentation for WinUI](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/). Rather than duplicate all of it, here we list selected entries that are especially applicable to Uno Platform developers.

These resources can serve as a starting point when designing your Uno Platform application.

> [!TIP]
> Use **[Hot Design®](xref:Uno.HotDesign.Overview)** to visually design your application while it runs, and leverage **[Hot Design® Agent](xref:Uno.HotDesign.Agent)** for AI-assisted UI creation and refinement based on these design principles.

Some of the points of guidance may be specific to Windows 10's [Fluent design language](https://www.microsoft.com/design/fluent/). When designing your cross-platform application, feel free to choose the principles that best apply to your users and the app experience you're aiming for.

## Basic design principles

* [Navigation principles](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/design/basics/navigation-basics)
* [Interactive elements](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/design/basics/commanding-basics)
* [Content presentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/design/basics/content-basics)
* [Page layout](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/design/layout/page-layout)

## Responsive design

* [Screen sizes and breakpoints](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/design/layout/screen-sizes-and-breakpoints-for-responsive-design)
* [Responsive design](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/design/layout/responsive-design)

## Individual controls

* [Controls list](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/design/controls-and-patterns/) _(note: not all controls may be implemented on non-Windows platforms - check the [individual control entries](implemented-views.md) in the Uno Platform API reference for details)_

## Patterns

* [Forms](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/design/controls-and-patterns/forms)
* [Master/details pattern](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/design/controls-and-patterns/master-details)
* [Integrating search](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/design/controls-and-patterns/search)

## Writing

* [Writing style](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/design/style/writing-style)
